---
layout: post
title:  "Musical Platforms"
date:   2013-06-27 16:52:37
---

Since my last post I went home for a few weeks and then came back to [Hamilton](http://cs.hamilton.edu/) to work on summer research within the Computer Science department. In my spare time I’ve been working on a Flash game I’m tentatively calling “Musical Platforms”. This is my first foray into making a Flash game (other than a [Snake](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_(video_game)) clone) and my first time working with ActionScript 3 as well as the [Flixel](http://flixel.org/) graphics library. It is also my first time working on a game that is not a Snake clone in general (I also previously made a Snake clone in Python using the [Pygame](http://www.pygame.org/news.html) library). For a while&nbsp;I've&nbsp;had the idea that I wanted to make some sort of game in which the player would create music by landing on platforms. I also wanted different notes to be associated with different colors and for platforms to change colors when the player landed on them. &nbsp;I also thought it could be interesting if somehow the music lit up the way for the player. In other words, that the platforms would be associated with some form of light as well as color and sound. I chose to create this using Flash mainly because it allows me the potential to share the game easily through the internet. No downloads needed!

This project is still in its early stages, but I do have platforms that play a note and light up when the player hits or lands on them. The player itself also has a light that illuminates the surrounding area and this light increases in size every time the player hits a platform. However, if the player is not touching a platform the light will decrease in size until it eventually goes out entirely. I’m not yet sure on the direction I want to go in for gameplay; as it is now you can move around the level and play music to your heart’s content, but there is no real goal. One neat feature is the ability to playback at any time the music the player has created from hitting platforms up until that point. I do plan to incorporate the player’s own created “music” into the game somehow as well as adding different instruments and or sounds to the platforms. Currently the platforms just release piano notes when hit, but I think that it would be neat to have lots of different instruments incorporated into the platform music library.

I will update my progress on this game as I incorporate new features and more importantly once there is actually some form of gameplay other than just moving about the platforms.

In the meantime, I've recorded a short video demoing the game in its current state. 
<iframe width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/jlcW2QRyNHA" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>